# Flood-Mapping-with-limited-labelled-Data
Code corresponding to my Bachelor Thesis "Exploring Earth-Observation-Based Flood Mapping Approaches with Limited Labelled Data" 
## Abstract 
Climate change has increased the severity and frequency of weather disasters all around the world, so that efforts to aid disaster management activities and recovery operations are of high value. Flood inundation mapping based on earth observation data can help in this context, by providing cheap and accurate maps depicting the area affected by a flood event to emergency-relief units in near-real-time. Modern deep neural network architectures require vast amounts of labeled data for training and whilst a large amount of unlabeled data is available ready-to-use, accurately labeling this data is a time-consuming task. Building upon the recent development of the Sen1Floods11 dataset, that provides a limited amount of hand-labeled high-quality training data, this thesis explores the potential of lightweight machine learning approaches for performing flood mapping that can also be used for generating weakly labeled training data. 

By implementing a semi-automatic workflow based on a modular pipeline architecture and a database for result management, eight classification and four clustering algorithms as well as their combinations were evaluated. Furthermore, this methodology enabled an extensive grid-search based hyperparameter optimization and result-analysis to find the best subset of 23 feature spaces. The performed experiments highlight the importance of selecting the correct feature space for this task, as the results show that a traditional Gradient Boosted Decision Tree classifier on satellite data outperforms state-of-the-art deep learning based approaches on the aforementioned dataset with a significant relative improvement of 30.8% and 19.7% in terms of total and mean IoU. This provides not only a highly-valuable source for weakly supervised training data, but also a fast to execute classifier in near-real-time flood mapping scenarios to support emergency-relief operations.
